2025-10-01

First found Time: O(n) solution but its not O(1) in space.
Also learned that you can map on Enumerators instead of
converting it into a array. Its a little bit faster but not by much.

The brute force solution is both, in place and O(1) space but its
O(n^2) time. It wont even pass the last 2 test cases.

How can we get the benefits of both solutions? 

(2026-02-24)
So I just so happened to read the second chapter of

 Programming Pearls

And look at what I found

"Rotate a one-dimensional vector of n elements left by / positions. For instance,
 with n=8 and /=3, the vector abcdefgh is rotated to defghabc. Simple code uses an
 n-element intermediate vector to do the job in n steps. Can you rotate the vector
 in time proportional to n using only a few dozen extra bytes of storage"

I thought, "HEY! that is exactly rotate array from leetcode problem"

well I read some more and.

"The problem looks hard until you finally have the aha! insight: let's view the
 problem as transforming the array ab into the array ba, but let's also assume that we
 have a function that reverses the elements in a specified portion of the array. Starting
 with ab, we reverse a to get arb, reverse b to get arbr, and then reverse the whole
 thing to get (arbr)r', which is exactly ba. This results in the following code for rota-
 tion; the comments show the results when abcdefgh is rotated left three elements."

Just WOW! it even mentions Kernighan and Ken Thompson.

"Brian Kernighan and P. J. Plauger used precisely this code
 in their 1981 Software Tools in Pascal to move lines within a text editor. Kernighan
 reports that it ran correctly the first time it was executed, while their previous code for
 a similar task based on linked lists contained several bugs. This code is used in sev-
 eral text processing systems, including the text editor with which I originally typed
 this column. Ken Thompson wrote the editor and the reversal code in 1971, and
 claims that it was part of the folklore even then."

There is so much knowledge out there just waiting to be found. 
